#  Air Quality Analysis in R 

This project, developed for the Methodology of Environmental Research and Analysis course, involves analysis of air quality using R Quarto. The analysis generates an interactive HTML report containing results, visualizations, and insights based on environmental data.

## Project Files:

- **projekt.qmd** – The main Quarto file containing R code and analysis.

- **proj.RData** – RData file used to store the R environment and workspace.

- **projekt.html** – The final HTML output generated from the projekt.qmd file, containing all the analysis results and visualizations.

- **projekt_files/** – A folder containing any external resources or assets needed for the analysis.

- **projekt_cache/** – A folder generated by Quarto that stores temporary files and cache for the analysis.

 ## How to View the Report

To view the generated HTML report, simply download the following files and ensure they are all in the same directory:

**projekt.html**

**projekt_files/**

**projekt_cache/**

Open **projekt.html** in your web browser, and the report should render with all the results and visualizations.

## How to Reproduce the Report

To generate the report from scratch in RStudio, follow these steps:

1. Install Required Packages

Ensure you have the necessary R packages installed. Run the following command in R:

```bash
install.packages(c(
  "knitr", "giosimport", "tidyverse", "lubridate", "openair", "leaflet", "openxlsx",
  "devtools", "purrr", "ggplot2", "dplyr", "worldmet", "DT", "gridExtra"
))
```

```bash
devtools::install_github("davidcarslaw/openair")
devtools::install_github("mrzeszut/giosimport"
```

2. Open the Project in RStudio

Open RStudio.

Set the working directory to the location of the project files using:

```bash
setwd("/path/to/your/project")
```

3. Load the Workspace 

If needed, load the saved R environment:

```bash
load("proj.RData")
```
 
4. Render the Report

Use Quarto to render the projekt.qmd file:

```bash
library(quarto)
quarto::quarto_render("projekt.qmd")
```
This will generate a new projekt.html file containing the updated analysis and visualizations.
